We are with Juan, who is the CEO
of the Super, and we will analyze
the innovation in the business model
that you have generated with
respect to traditional supermarkets
and online supermarkets, and subsequently
we will analyze, I would
like you to tell us how the
situation in the sector is, how
models like yours are penetrating,
what percentage
is on the total market,
etc.
The first thing I will explain is,
I will briefly explain the business
model of a traditional supermarket,
it is a linear model, the supermarket
has to stock, it has to buy that
commodity, it has hundreds or
thousands of suppliers, much
smaller than it, and it sells through
the distribution channel, it is a
physical channel, there
are sales points owned by that supermarket
chain, therefore it is a business
model that is very intensive,
it is very resource-intensive,
because you have to finance the
purchase of all that stock,
and it is also little scalable,
because the distribution channel
is little scalable, because they
are sales points, in addition
to many square meters, and the
online supermarkets arrive,
which in some cases are
the own web pages of traditional
supermarkets, and in other
cases are supermarkets
that are born purely
online.
What are the advantages of the online
supermarket business model over
the traditional?
The scalability of the distribution
channel can grow much faster,
because a physical supermarket,
if you want to grow in Murcia,
has to look for locals, condition
them, etc., a digital supermarket
is much more scalable, because
its channel is more scalable,
but it comes from the super, and
it is a turn of thunder more
yet, and it is to turn a model
online supermarket linear
into a marketplace that
connects the supermarkets
with buyers.
So, I would like you to explain,
to begin with, what is the value
proposal of the super?
Let’s start with the value proposal
for the consumer, and what would
be the advantages you offer with
respect to the online supermarket?
Perfect, basically, the food market
in Spain are 66.000.000.000
euros, the digital share has
never exceeded 1%, in 2015
0.9 according to Magrama,
then, why in a market so important
as that of food the
digital share is so
low?
When in other sectors like fashion
we are talking about 15%,
always talking about Spain,
even if you go to the UK the
food quota is 6%, in France 4.
4%, but in Spain had never
come to take off.
Why does a market not get
off in digital when what is offered
is convenient?
Convenience is, to explain it by
if someone, convenience is convenience,
comfort, that in this case is to
be delivered to you quickly and
that is convenient for you, right?
It is, in the end, the
main reason why people
buy online, for ease,
for that convenience.
And that’s the main reason people
buy at the supermarket that’
s closer to your home too,
for pure convenience.
Totally, and that is why in Spain
it is a country where the
nearby stores have so much
flourished and there is a great
battle between the big brands,
among the market leaders,
to do with proximity.
So if we have such a low penetration
rate within the digital market
is basically because supply,
that is, supermarkets
have never come to offer
an offer that suits
the needs of demand.
It is convenient because it takes a long time.
and totally.
What are those needs?
Typically, the type of digital
user that buys these services is a
city-city customer, urban,
24, 40, 45 years old, middle-medium-
high purchasing power.
So, we are talking about that if
they haven’t done so far it was because
they were not getting that
offer.
What is that offer?
Basically, when a user decides that
he wants to fill the refrigerator in the
target we are talking about, it
is when he opens the refrigerator and
sees it is empty.
Unless you have a house with several
children where you are well planned,
that’s not the case.
So, when you want to make that purchase
it results that until now you had
to get into, as you were saying,
in a few websites that in many
cases are outdated, in many cases
they are delivering you a day,
two days later and above in slots
of four hours, two to four
hours.
That means you won’t eat today,
if you won’t eat tomorrow
or last morning, that’s, and
you have to be just.
So you have to get back from work
that typically this type of customers
are bound up for work, for leisure,
in the end it is a type of profile
that the type of digital profile
wants to take advantage
of your time.
He is a smart user and wants to take
advantage of his time.
So, these users first crossed
that technological barrier.
Hear, come, I will try to make
the purchase on a website like
Mercadona, which he himself
recognized, my website is a
shit, it has no photos.
How will you go shopping
if you don’t even have photos?
Indistintly you have to wait one or
two days and on top of that you’
re waiting two or four hours
inside your home.
And not just that, but when you
get the purchase you open the bag and
what do you find yourself with?
Do you find that the milk you have
breakfast with has not brought you
or brought you another brand because
they have replaced under their
best criteria or that the fresh has
chosen it in favor of the best for
the supermarket, not the best of
the user?
Then, the user at that time
says, I had to fight with a
web, wait one or two days to receive
my purchase and in third place
I have to go down to the Chinese,
I have to go down to the nearest
supermarket because I want my milk
to be able to eat breakfast
tomorrow.
What is what happens?
That is why 38% of consumers who
have ever made a digital purchase
do not use it because the offer
is not available.
Has the 38 ever done that?
Of course, between 25 and 40 years.
The service is very low because
the service is very poor.
That is, then the frequency, not
only the frequency and recurrence
of those users is very low
and that is why we reached
a 0.9% of a market as potent
as 66 billion euros in Spain.
We have already identified the keys
for which the market does not grow.
Of course, why not...
That is, they are big players,
why aren’t they offering this?
Basically because their logistics
costs are higher in many
cases or equal to the
profit they are collecting.
Once again citing, because it was
Mr. Roch, which is the number
one chain undisputedly in Spain,
even in digital too,
with that web...
The website has not improved, it is
still the same as...
A new platform is scheduled
for the first quarter of next year.
Why did you launch this new platform?
Because they are also obeying third-
party pressures, as she
is beginning to harm not
only your online channel but
also your offline channel,
because the line between offline
and online is very thin and
within that paradigm that
more that famous omnicanality
is joined, that more offline
is joined with online, we
are talking that the same day
delivery today begins to
charge a very important
importance.
Do you offer that?
We offer the same day delivery
to go clarify the value proposal
with respect to the online
supermarket to start the same
day delivery.
That is.
We have always been positioned
as partners of the supermarkets.
We are a technology company.
The English court, the English court.
Everyone knows what I
am doing with technology.
What am I dedicated to?
A marketplace, which is an idea
that comes from the United States
through Instacart, a marketplace
where the user can
choose the supermarkets
where he or she wants
to make the purchase.
We are offering a brand that the
customer is already recognizing.
You can buy, you can choose
Mercadona, you can choose DIA, you
can choose El Corte Inglés,
the first brands within Spain.
You will find the same catalogue
always within our website and
we will first deliver you
all the purchase in an hour.
That is, if they are now, I put
an example, at 5 p.m. I will be
able to deliver you from 6
to 7 p.m.
But I go further.
If you shop at 9 a.m. but you
know you’re going to arrive
at 9 a.m., you’ll be able to
choose between 9 and 10 a.m.
Because that’s the important thing,
that the user not only receives it
on the same day delivery, but that
he has a band as short and better
as possible to receive all his order.
I think the value proposal is
very clear for now.
I wonder what the price
is for the user.
In this case, we have agreements
with supermarket brands.
The business model is that
supermarkets pay us a
fee for the purchases
we are receiving, because
we capture users and
we pick and we deliver.
We handle the entire value chain,
capture and logistics
distribution.
You buy it and take
it to...
That is.
And secondly, the user does what
is paying a shipping fee, which is
5.95 euros, which is a more
attractive price, that is, per order.
If it is a multi-super we are at 8.90.
Multisuper I mean that you make
the purchase, that this is the
real differentiation of
our platform.
You can buy a portion of frescoes,
for example, in the English cut,
a portion of the dish in the day
and another part of cosmetics
in the marketplace.
The difference is
very clear with respect
to online supermarkets.
Can you buy it in different
supermarkets?
When the online supermarket only offers
you its own.
Can you buy a white mark?
You don’t know, but
you can buy a white mark.
You have given a key point.
I’m sorry to cut you off, because 52%
of the average basket of a Spanish
is made up of white marks.
And there are other players, such
as Amazon, who will never be able
to offer it.
You can also buy the white brand
from different supermarkets.
You take it in an hour.
And you take it at the time
it determines, etc.
I think the value proposition
is very clear.
We will analyze now, and you have
also told us what the flow of income
is, because you have told us that
the supermarkets pay you for the
sales you are doing, because you
are capturing a new customer,
you are generating recurrent
income to the supermarket,
etc.
There is a very important factor
to analyze your business model, innovation,
and is that your model relative
to the one of an online supermarket,
your model for being a
marketplace, has huge advantages.
It has huge advantages in terms
of the resources you need,
compared to the resources
a online supermarket needs.
Tell us.
Basically, as I said before, we
are a technology company, and that’
s where we have to make all
our improvements.
It is a platform, but apart from what
we have been developing over
these almost three years, it is
a technology that allows the
logistics of same day delivery
in a profitable way.
When supermarkets were not
being able to deliver online
shopping in 24 or 48 hours,
in those 2 to 4 hour slots,
in a profitable way.
We are doing it on the same
day, and we are doing it in a
profitable way, with profitable
operations.
That’s what it requires
is a technology that allows
scalability, and not just that,
but increases productivity
and automation of all
our operations.
That is the important thing.
That is the true core of
our business.
As I said before, I don’t know
how to make a book.
For that are the supermarkets
that are making their catalog
and know perfectly what the newties
are, what the pricing they have
to put in.
We at the end, to all these
operations, as I said, the
core is all the technology
that is automating, scaling
and making profitable all
operations, and secondly
is the operating model.
How are we doing this?
We have no warehouses,
we are not buying any kind
of stock, we have no shrinkage.
Do you not buy food?
I buy it directly in the supermarket.
Do you buy and sell food?
You don’t provide the service, you
do what you buy in the supermarket,
and you connect it with
the customer.
The picking service and
delivery service.
I need people, I need a technology
that organizes those people
and makes all those operations
profitable, but it’s actually
a business of people’
s profitability.
Once I get the order within
my platform, the algorithm
automatically assigns
who is targeted, which
picker is targeted.
Pickers is the buyer, we call
him the super buyer.
So, our super-buyer, if you have
purchased from Mercadona, within
our website, within the super.
es, that buyer will receive the
order assigned in your application,
and has an application
that will help you increase
productivity and be fast,
but also in time and in
shape.
Then he will make the purchase inside
the supermarket where physical, just
like the user himself would,
he will send you whatsapps, he
will be able to call you by phone
and he will say, Borja, the
merluza has no good taste, the
milk with which you eat breakfast
is not left, but I can change
it for this other.
So, it’s like a personal shopper
at the end that’s at your service
to make your purchase.
Once you have made the purchase,
we have two models, either that
same person delivers you, or
we have a split of the
operations that we give to
a delivery man, a super
delivery, as we call it,
who will deliver all
the purchase you have made.
Why are there two different
types of geography?
Yes indeed.
That lies in what volume of
demand we have, one, second,
what geographical areas
we are covering.
We are now in four major
cities, Madrid, Barcelona,
Sevilla and Málaga, each
of which has a completely
different discretion.
In a Madrid, for example, we have
a much greater demand increase
than maybe in Seville or Málaga,
as it is normal, or in a Barcelona,
at the end what marks you
are the distances for your
ability to deliver in an hour
the purchase and delivery.
What we have are clusters,
we call them virtual
clusters, where we have
localized our super-buyers.
Depending on the demand of a zone,
for example, for Madrid or the
West we have an exclusive cluster
that shares all the western area,
which is very large in extension,
but less population density
than in a Madrid centre.